
# Week 1 "Jam": Getting Everything Setup


### 1. Introduce yourself

Before you start, say "Hi!" to your demonstrator, and introduce yourselves.

### 2. Ensure everyone has their Codio setup

Next, you need to ensure each individual member has their Codio setup.
We went through this in the lecture, and the [instructions are available here](../blob/main/setting-up-codio.md).

Help any team members with issues, or ask your demonstrator for help if you need it! 

### 3. Ensure your Sinatra application has been created

This should have been done already as part of the 
[setting up Codio instructions](../blob/main/setting-up-codio.md).

Ensure everyone in your team can clone the team repository and that you have run
the `create_app` in it to create the basic files needed for your Sinatra
application.

### 4. Initial Commit, Push, and Pull

Make sure everyone can `pull` other people's changes, and that they themselves
can `commit` changes and then `push` them.

Before your initial commit, make sure to update your git settings (`user.name` and 
`user.email`) so that they match your GitLab profile (replacing the parts in 
square brackets with your personal information:
```
git config user.name "[FULL_NAME (as shown on GitLab)]"
git config user.email "[YOUR_EMAIL]@sheffield.ac.uk"
```

You can get people to add their names to the "Hello, World!" functionality as
a way of making changes to your application.

Now: can each member do a pull and get the latest version of the project?

### 5. Begin thinking about the web pages needed for your web application

Take some of your key stories and discuss:

* What pages will be needed?

* What will they look like and do? What forms are needed? (Note that we have not
  yet covered databases, but assume the user will be able to submit data via
  forms that you will be able to store data in a database for use elsewhere in
  the application.)

* How will these pages link together? For example, what will be the overall
  structure of the application, what hyperlinks are required, which pages are
  accessible only via form submissions.

Next week in lectures, we will be starting to discuss the basics of web application 
development using Sinatra. 

